# Music-Recommendation-using-Emotion-Facial-Recognition
My team and I created a project on Music recommendation based on Human Facial and Emotion Recognition through which a person can listen to recommended songs via YouTube or Spotify based on their real time Facial Detection and Emotion Recognition.
The human face is an important organ of an individual’s body and it especially plays an important role in extraction of an individual ‘s behavior and emotional state. Manually segregating the list of songs and generating an appropriate playlist based on an individual's emotional features is a very tedious, time consuming, labor intensive and upheld task. Various algorithms have been proposed and developed for automating the playlist generation process. However, proposed existing algorithms in use are computationally slow, less accurate. This proposed system based on facial expression extracted will generate a playlist automatically thereby reducing the effort and time involved in rendering the process manually. Facial expressions are captured using an inbuilt camera. Face recognition technology has widely attracted attention due to its enormous application value and market potential. Additionally, music is the form of art, which is known to have a greater connection with a person’s emotion. It has got a unique ability to lift up one’s mood. Relatively, this recommendation system focuses on building an efficient music recommendation system which determines the emotion of the user using Facial Recognition techniques. Overall concept of the system is to recognize facialemotion and recommend songs efficiently. The proposed system will be both time and cost efficient.
